That's good stuff. Good morning, good afternoon, good
evening, depending on where you might be in the world. This
is the first, the very first episode of Coffee with Kaizen,
alright?
Now, you might be asking yourself, what is Coffee with
Kaizen? Is it a new podcast? A new video series? The answer
is yes and no, alright? Because if you've been following me
for any amount of time, you probably know about the Life in
English podcast, which I've been doing for a couple years
now. That's not gonna change, but I want to do an
experiment. So for the next month, alright, the next month
from Monday to Friday, every morning, I'm gonna sit here,
enjoy my morning cup of coffee like I always do and just
chat with you for a little bit, you know? I might share, uh,
an interesting story, a quick English tip, answer questions
that you guys ask me all the time on social media and stuff
like that. The point is, we're just gonna enjoy our morning
cup of coffee together every day, Monday to Friday for the
next month.
We'll see how it goes, alright? So you can kind of think of
coffee with Kaizen as a daily podcast where Life in English
is more like a weekly podcast, right? And, uh, Life in
English is kinda like the parent and Coffee
with Kaizen would be like the child, I don't know. But you
have the tree, which is Life in English, and then you have
the branches. And one of those branches would be Coffee with
Kaizen. Hopefully that makes sense. It's not really
important. Just understand that you're gonna be seeing this
face every day for the next month, alright? We're gonna get
real close. Real close.
But anyway, for the first episode of Coffee with Kaizen, I
got some notes here actually, because I didn't want to
forget anything I wanted to say. So yeah, like I said, what
you should expect, uh, in every episode, it's just something
different. I'm just gonna... It's very similar to the Life
in English podcast, just a much shorter version and it's
daily, you know what I mean? Because sometimes I won't go
super crazy deep into a subject like I would on the Life of
English podcast, but if there's just a quick English tip or
a question that I can answer for somebody or just say,
"What's up?" first thing in the morning, I think that would
be valuable to you because it's always a different subject
and I'll always be teaching you something about life or
English. So just your little daily dose of English with
Kaizen, right?
Alright. So the question of the day, now that we got the
intro...the introductions and the formalities and all that
shit out the way, what's the question of the day? I get
asked all the time now, why do you only teach English in
English, especially when you can speak other languages? How
are you going to teach me to speak English if I'm learning
English and I can't really understand all of it, how can you
teach me only speaking English? Why do you do that? And I
think it's um...it's a (an) understandable question, but the
answer is actually very simple I just don't think people
like it very much. The reason I teach English only in
English is because I learned very early in my language
learning journey that the best way to learn a language is by
immersing yourself in that language. And a lot of people
will say, "You got to move to that foreign country to learn
that language." I say, "That's bullshit." But that's just my
opinion. I think that you can find many different ways to
live your life in a particular language at home every day,
you know what I'm saying? And when you stop and think about
it, this is the philosophy, we don't have to overthink these
things. English or language is not like math, science,
history, social studies, things like that. I've said this a
hundred times on the Life in English podcast. I'm gonna say
it a hundred more times until people really start to
understand, you know? There's a more effective way to do
this shit. You've already done it. You've already done it.
How do I learn a foreign language? The question is
understandable. I had the same question years ago. But the
answer is very simple. Do exactly what you did when you
learned your first language. What did you do? You were a
baby, the people around you were making certain noises. They
were talking to you. You didn't understand what the fuck was
going on. But slowly --I don't know how this works I'm not a
linguist-- but slowly something in the brain starts
happening to where these words, these sounds that everyone
around you is making start to make sense, right? Bottle.
Cup. Coffee.
Mom. Dad. These words start to have meaning for some reason.
I don't know how it works, but that's what happens. And
slowly over time, you start trying to talk back. You're just
making noises, you know? And over time, you can see in a
baby there's intent there. They're not saying words per se.
They're making noises. And you can see there's an intent to
communicate, right?
And slowly over time, they start learning how to pronounce
words then they have their first words. And that this whole
time, all they hear around them is that language. English,
for example. That's all I hear all day, every day around me
on the TV, the radio, mom, dad, sister, brother, everybody
speaking English. All the time. So I...Then I start trying
to imitate the people around me and start speaking English
all the time. And slowly but surely I get better at putting
sentences together, learning new words. I learned context
and things like that. Then I learned to read and write.
You've already done it. You already done it. You didn't
learn your native language in a foreign language. You
learned it in the native language. So I don't see any
logical reason to apply any other strategy, methodology or
way of thinking when it comes to learning another one. Just
do the same thing. The difference is - now you're most
likely an adult. You might be a teenager if you're watching
this, you might be anywhere from sixteen to sixty, I don't
know. But the point is - you're older now, so you have the
benefit of experience, you understand?
Hopefully you understand context. You can use the context of
a situation to infer what's happening or what's being said.
To guess, to imagine what's being said. What's the facial
expression? What's the tone of voice? What would I say in
that situation? Could I understand a few words then maybe
guess the meaning of the entire sentence? Stuff like that.
You can do that now as an adult. Or as a child, I don't
think...I don't think a child thinks the same way when
they're hearing a foreign language or just a new language,
you know? They're just kind of soaking it up. And I guess
that's the point is you have to be in a point, you got to be
at a place where you can kind of be comfortable feeling like
a kid. Because you are, like, you have to go back to zero or
age five or age seven where you can communicate a little
bit, but a lot of stuff you don't understand. You can
express yourself like you want to or like you would like to,
right? And just every single day listen to that language and
speak that language. That's how you learned your first
language. You didn't take any courses to learn your first
language, you just learned it. There are people that cannot
read, but they can speak a language.
What does that tell me? It means that you don't need
to...I'm not saying English schools are bad. I'm not saying
school is bad, education is bad. Not even close to my point.
I'm just saying that if somebody who didn't even finish
fourth grade, somebody who dropped out of school before they
turned ten can still speak a language, what does that say
about you and me? It means that anybody can learn a
language, though it's not dependent on how smart you are or
how educated you are. You need to know how to learn, and I'm
here to help you learn that. But other than that, dude,
like, just don't overcomplicate it. So getting back to the
question itself --because I don't feel like I've answered
it-- the reason that I teach English in English is because I
feel it's the most effective way. Besides that, I don't make
lessons or content or material for beginners. That's just
not my specialty. That's not what I'm really interested in.
That's not what I'm good at, you know? This is more for like
the pre-intermediate, intermediate, advanced people who I've
already gained some type of understanding and working
knowledge of the basics of the English language. So if
you're having a hard time understanding me right now, I'm
not saying that this isn't for you, I'm just saying that I'm
not speaking directly to somebody who has just started
learning English. I'm happy to help in any way I can, and I
hope that you find what I do helpful as well but that's just
it. It's totally valuable to have somebody who speaks your
native language, teaching you, trying to learn a foreign
language in the beginning because you need to translate, you
need to understand complex ways of thinking or just
different ways of thinking that are abstract to you because
we think different ways in different languages, right?
Totally valuable, probably even necessary for all of us. But
there comes a point when you gotta move away from that and
understand the more productive way. The only way you're
gonna reach the next level truly is to leave your native
language behind, put it in your pocket, leave it at home,
don't bring it with you to class and rebuild your brain or
build a new brain in a new language, a new way of seeing the
world, a new way of describing reality, a new way of
communicating and expressing yourself. You can't be thinking
about your native language when you're trying to learn a new
one. You're just slowing yourself down. So I just think it's
the best way, man. It's the best way for those who really
want to challenge themselves, who really want to learn, who
really want to improve their comprehension, their vocabulary
to understanding. It's... I'm not saying it's the only way.
I just think it's the best way. That's the whole concept
behind Life in English is if you want to learn a foreign
language, you just have to live your life in that language.
That's it. When I was learning Spanish, I would wake up
every day and live my life in Spanish. When I was learning
Portuguese, I'd wake up every day and live my life in
Portuguese. And I still do till today. Speak English, in
Spanish and Portuguese basically every day, even if I'm
talking to myself. That's the whole concept, you know?
There's no secrets. There's no tips. Do not waste $300 or
$500 or $1,000 on some bullshit course somebody saying they
got the secret to fluency because it doesn't exist. You
already got the secret. Just ask yourself, what did I do to
learn my first language? And do that. Hopefully that makes
sense.
I haven't taken a sip of coffee since this transmission
started, but that's it for now. That's episode one in the
books. Hopefully you enjoyed and I'll see you tomorrow. No,
actually, not tomorrow, because today is Thursday, August
12th, 2021.
It's crazy that we're in August already, man. It feels like
just a month ago it was 2021. Everybody was like, "Whoo!
2020 is over." You know what I'm saying? We're in August,
the middle of August. But anyway, I record this today, I'm
gonna edit it later this evening when I get some time. I'll
release it Friday morning. So every episode that you see
will be from the previous day. So I record this on Thursday,
release the next episode on Friday. So Imma record one
tomorrow morning and release it on Monday, you get what I'm
saying? So just a reminder, Monday to Friday, most likely at
8 a.m. - Coffee with Kaizen. It's a part of the Life in
English podcast, it's kind of like, um, a subseries of Life
in English podcast. So these episodes, or at least the
next... all the episodes from the next month will be on the
same podcast feed as Life in English. They'll be on
lifeinenglish.net. You can find them there, Spotify,
anywhere that you watch or listen to the podcast, it'll be
there. If you can't find it, shoot me a message on social or
an email maybe @englishwithkaizen.
And, um, if you can't find, I'll try to help you find it
somewhere, alright? But that's it, man. Episode one in the
books. Hopefully you enjoyed and I'll see you...I'll see you
when I see you. Peace!